(upbeat music)
So let's talk about the opposite of resolving
and that is rejecting.
So, when something, when a promise goes awry,
and you wanna sort of bail on it,
you can call the reject function.
So, let's go back up to our definition
of make a pizza.
And inside of our promise here,
we need to check for something very important
and that is, did somebody try
and put pineapple on their pizza.
And if that is true, then we need to reject this pizza
from happening.
So, what we'll do is, we'll say reject
if people try with pineapple.
So we'll say, if toppings dot includes pineapple,
and right now I'm just gonna do lowercase pineapple,
we're gonna have to try and weed out people who uppercase
pineapple in just a minute.
And if that is the case, we will call reject
and say, "Seriously, get out."
Is there a pineapple emoji?
Absolutely.
Okay, now let's go down here.
And we'll try, let's just comment all this out,
and make a brand new one.
So we'll say, make a pizza.
And we'll try to make a pizza with cheese and pineapple.
Then we'll say then, pizza,
console log, pizza.
So let's try and run this now.
Uncaught in promise.
Seriously, get out.
That just is promise HTML 1.
So, what does that mean?
Well, that means that there was an error
in one of our promises, but we did not write any code
to handle that error, in order to try and catch it.
So, the way that you catch an error, in a promise,
is you chain a dot catch onto the end.
And the catch will give you the error,
and we'll console log, "Oh no!"
and console log the error.
Now, when we run it, we get, "Oh no, seriously, get out."
and a pineapple emoji.
Why?
Because, we'll put these on their own line here.
The then will only happen when the promise resolves
successfully and the catch will only run
when the promise doesn't go successfully.
So, almost always, with your promise built functions,
you must always chain a dot then and a dot catch,
onto the end, so that if anything goes wrong,
you're able to actually go ahead and catch it,
and display to the user.
What I'll usually do, is I'll make a function
called handle promise.
What I'll usually do is I'll make a little function here
called handle error, and that will take in the error.
And then inside of that, we'll console log, "Oh no!"
Console log the error and then what we'll do is,
instead of just having to catch it like that,
I'll just pass it my handle error,
and what that will do is, you can just pass it
reference to a function, which will then handle the error.
Should be able to spell it right,
and it still works, like we want.
Now, it's important to note here, that,
not every single promise needs a catch on the end.
If we were to go back up to this chain of promises
that we did earlier,
and something where,
let's say, this pizza right here.
That one has pineapple.
You see, what happens is,
we go through the promise chain again
and then as soon as we hit that error,
where we try to make the pizza, with the pineapple.
We get the uncaught, in promise error.
So how do we catch that?
Does that mean that we have to put a dot catch
in between every single one?
That's annoying.
And the answer to that is no.
You just need to put one catch, at the very end,
that will be able to handle our error.
Now, when I refresh, it says, "Oh no! Seriously, get out."
The thing about an error happening in a promise chain
is that, where ever the error happens, it will then
bail out of the rest of the entire promise chain.
So, if you have seven or eight steps,
and they're all dependent upon one an another,
then that's good, because if step three breaks,
then you don't want to keep going.
But sometimes you'll be like, okay, that's fine that this
pineapple one got rejected but what about
our garbage pail pizza?
What about the ones that come after it?
I still want those to be made.
And if that's the case then promise chaining
is not what you want and we need to use some of these other
promise dot all, promise dot race,
some of these other promise static methods.
So, what we can do here,
let's make two pizzas.
And say, const, pizza one, is equal to make pizza.
And let's make it a pepperoni.
And we'll make a pizza two, that comes with a pineapple,
then we'll use a new API,
and it's called promise dot all settled.
And we can make a mega promise,
so const, dinner promise two is equal to promise
dot all settled, and we pass it an array of our promises.
Promise one, promise two.
And we'll say dinner, promise two dot then.
We'll just get the results.
Console log the results.
See what we got here.
These are our results.
If you open it up, it will then tell us
the first one was fulfilled,
and the second one was rejected.
Fulfilled is another word that they use
instead of resolved.
So this one is obviously resolved or fulfilled
and it tells me the pizza, and this one is rejected.
So, that's really helpful, because the difference
between promise all and promise all settled
is if I did that with promise dot all,
it would break.
See how this broke right here.
That's because it assumes that promise dot all,
it assumes that all of them will go successfully
and if you want to catch any errors
that happened in promise dot all,
you need to them catch them like that.
And then we get our, "Oh no!"
And that is probably not want you want,
because if one of them breaks
then we maybe still want the other one,
those other pizza's are still good.
So promise dot all settled
will just tell you when all of them are done
regardless of if they were rejected or resolved.
There are a few more error handling techniques
that we need to use, but they do not get introduced
until we learn a async await.
So that's it for this one.
Let's go back and refactor that last exercise
we did, to use promises instead of call back cal.